doc/source/using-api-v2.rst, before:

=======================
Using the V2 Client API
=======================

Introduction
============

The main concepts in the Identity v2 API are:

 * tenants
 * users
 * roles
 * services
 * endpoints

The V2 client API lets you query and make changes through
managers. For example, to manipulate tenants, you interact with a
``keystoneclient.v2_0.tenants.TenantManager`` object.

You obtain access to managers via attributes of the
``keystoneclient.v2_0.client.Client`` object. For example, the ``tenants``
attribute of the ``Client`` class is a tenant manager::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> keystone.tenants.list() # List tenants

You create a valid ``keystoneclient.v2_0.client.Client`` object by passing
authentication data to the constructor. Authentication and examples of common
tasks are provided below.

You can generally expect that when the client needs to propagate an exception
it will raise an instance of subclass of
``keystoneclient.exceptions.ClientException``

Authenticating
==============

There are two ways to authenticate against Keystone:
 * against the admin endpoint with the admin token
 * against the public endpoint with a username and password

If you are an administrator, you can authenticate by connecting to the admin
endpoint and using the admin token (sometimes referred to as the service
token). The token is specified as the ``admin_token`` configuration option in
your keystone.conf config file, which is typically in /etc/keystone::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> token = '012345SECRET99TOKEN012345'
    >>> endpoint = 'http://192.168.206.130:35357/v2.0'
    >>> keystone = client.Client(token=token, endpoint=endpoint)

If you have a username and password, authentication is done against the
public endpoint. You must also specify a tenant that is associated with the
user::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> username='adminUser'
    >>> password='secreetword'
    >>> tenant_name='openstackDemo'
    >>> auth_url='http://192.168.206.130:5000/v2.0'
    >>> keystone = client.Client(username=username, password=password,
    ...                          tenant_name=tenant_name, auth_url=auth_url)

Creating tenants
================

This example will create a tenant named *openStackDemo*::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> keystone.tenants.create(tenant_name="openstackDemo",
    ...                         description="Default Tenant", enabled=True)
    <Tenant {u'id': u'9b7962da6eb04745b477ae920ad55939', u'enabled': True, u'description': u'Default Tenant', u'name': u'openstackDemo'}>

Creating users
==============

This example will create a user named *adminUser* with a password *secretword*
in the opoenstackDemo tenant. We first need to retrieve the tenant::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> tenants = keystone.tenants.list()
    >>> my_tenant = [x for x in tenants if x.name=='openstackDemo'][0]
    >>> my_user = keystone.users.create(name="adminUser",
    ...                                 password="secretword",
    ...                                 tenant_id=my_tenant.id)

Creating roles and adding users
===============================

This example will create an admin role and add the *my_user* user to that
role, but only for the *my_tenant* tenant:

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> role = keystone.roles.create('admin')
    >>> my_tenant = ...
    >>> my_user = ...
    >>> keystone.roles.add_user_role(my_user, role, my_tenant)

Creating services and endpoints
===============================

This example will create the service and corresponding endpoint for the
Compute service::

    >>> from keystoneclient.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> service = keystone.services.create(name="nova", service_type="compute",
    ...                                    description="Nova Compute Service")
    >>> keystone.endpoints.create(
    ...     region="RegionOne", service_id=service.id,
    ...     publicurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s",
    ...     adminurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s",
    ...     internalurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s")

Commit message:

Change keystoneclient to keystoneauth in docs
This was simply the result of:

find -type f | xargs sed -i 's/keystoneclient/keystoneauth/g'
find -type f | xargs sed -i 's/python-keystoneauth/keystoneauth/g'

in the docs directory to fix the build failure.

Will look at a doc rewrite soon.

Change-Id: I05d4be12f31ea47e917dc79e50d17b174bf89938

doc/source/using-api-v2.rst, after:

=======================
Using the V2 Client API
=======================

Introduction
============

The main concepts in the Identity v2 API are:

 * tenants
 * users
 * roles
 * services
 * endpoints

The V2 client API lets you query and make changes through
managers. For example, to manipulate tenants, you interact with a
``keystoneauth.v2_0.tenants.TenantManager`` object.

You obtain access to managers via attributes of the
``keystoneauth.v2_0.client.Client`` object. For example, the ``tenants``
attribute of the ``Client`` class is a tenant manager::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> keystone.tenants.list() # List tenants

You create a valid ``keystoneauth.v2_0.client.Client`` object by passing
authentication data to the constructor. Authentication and examples of common
tasks are provided below.

You can generally expect that when the client needs to propagate an exception
it will raise an instance of subclass of
``keystoneauth.exceptions.ClientException``

Authenticating
==============

There are two ways to authenticate against Keystone:
 * against the admin endpoint with the admin token
 * against the public endpoint with a username and password

If you are an administrator, you can authenticate by connecting to the admin
endpoint and using the admin token (sometimes referred to as the service
token). The token is specified as the ``admin_token`` configuration option in
your keystone.conf config file, which is typically in /etc/keystone::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> token = '012345SECRET99TOKEN012345'
    >>> endpoint = 'http://192.168.206.130:35357/v2.0'
    >>> keystone = client.Client(token=token, endpoint=endpoint)

If you have a username and password, authentication is done against the
public endpoint. You must also specify a tenant that is associated with the
user::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> username='adminUser'
    >>> password='secreetword'
    >>> tenant_name='openstackDemo'
    >>> auth_url='http://192.168.206.130:5000/v2.0'
    >>> keystone = client.Client(username=username, password=password,
    ...                          tenant_name=tenant_name, auth_url=auth_url)

Creating tenants
================

This example will create a tenant named *openStackDemo*::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> keystone.tenants.create(tenant_name="openstackDemo",
    ...                         description="Default Tenant", enabled=True)
    <Tenant {u'id': u'9b7962da6eb04745b477ae920ad55939', u'enabled': True, u'description': u'Default Tenant', u'name': u'openstackDemo'}>

Creating users
==============

This example will create a user named *adminUser* with a password *secretword*
in the opoenstackDemo tenant. We first need to retrieve the tenant::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> tenants = keystone.tenants.list()
    >>> my_tenant = [x for x in tenants if x.name=='openstackDemo'][0]
    >>> my_user = keystone.users.create(name="adminUser",
    ...                                 password="secretword",
    ...                                 tenant_id=my_tenant.id)

Creating roles and adding users
===============================

This example will create an admin role and add the *my_user* user to that
role, but only for the *my_tenant* tenant:

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> role = keystone.roles.create('admin')
    >>> my_tenant = ...
    >>> my_user = ...
    >>> keystone.roles.add_user_role(my_user, role, my_tenant)

Creating services and endpoints
===============================

This example will create the service and corresponding endpoint for the
Compute service::

    >>> from keystoneauth.v2_0 import client
    >>> keystone = client.Client(...)
    >>> service = keystone.services.create(name="nova", service_type="compute",
    ...                                    description="Nova Compute Service")
    >>> keystone.endpoints.create(
    ...     region="RegionOne", service_id=service.id,
    ...     publicurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s",
    ...     adminurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s",
    ...     internalurl="http://192.168.206.130:8774/v2/%(tenant_id)s")
